README.md, before:

# 🧠 EduAgent — AI Assistant for Schools on Solana  

**Pilot Integration:** Intebix × Eurasian Bank | Digital Tenge (KZTE) | NFT Achievements | AI Gamification  

EduAgent connects schools in Kazakhstan to the Digital Tenge (KZTE) pilot via Solana blockchain.  
It automates tuition payments and rewards students with NFT achievement badges powered by AI gamification.  
Built during the **Solana Cypherpunk Hackathon 2025**.  

---

## 🌍 Overview  

EduAgent is a pilot project bridging **Kazakhstan’s educational system** and **Solana blockchain**.  
It enables schools to accept **stablecoin (KZTE / USDC)** payments while gamifying student motivation through **AI-generated NFT badges** for attendance, performance, and engagement.  

Built by: **Rakhman Ibragimov 🇰🇿**  
Location: **Kazakhstan**  
Tracks: Stablecoins / RWAs / Consumer Apps / Infrastructure  

---

## 🎯 Pitch Summary  

EduAgent — это AI-ассистент для школ Казахстана,  
который объединяет оплату обучения и мотивацию через NFT-достижения на Solana.  
Проект решает реальные задачи прозрачности и вовлечённости  
в рамках пилота **Digital Tenge × Intebix × Eurasian Bank**.  

---

## 🚀 Features  

- 💰 Tuition payments with **Digital Tenge (KZTE)** and **USDC** via Solana Devnet  
- 🧾 Mock integration with **Intebix × Eurasian Bank** pilot gateway  
- 🎓 NFT achievements using **Metaplex Standard**  
- 🤖 AI gamification powered by **FastAPI + Gemini/OpenAI**  
- 🔒 Secure and auditable transactions on **Solana blockchain**  

---

## 🔗 Solana Integration  

EduAgent uses **Solana Devnet** to tokenize payment confirmations and mint achievement NFTs.  
Each transaction is recorded on-chain through a custom Solana program and verified via the RPC API.  
Without Solana, the system would lose transparency and proof-of-ownership —  
on-chain logic ensures every NFT represents a real verified milestone.  

---

## 💡 Problem & Vision  

Kazakhstan is pioneering one of the world’s first **Digital Tenge pilots**,  
yet most schools still rely on cash payments and manual reporting.  
EduAgent creates a transparent digital ecosystem where  
tuition, performance, and achievements are unified on-chain.  

Our vision:  
**AI-driven education meets transparent blockchain finance.**  

---

## 🧩 Tech Stack  

| Layer | Technology |  
|--------|-------------|  
| Frontend | HTML + JavaScript |  
| Backend | FastAPI (Python) |  
| Blockchain | Solana Web3.js (Devnet) |  
| Payments | Mock Intebix × Eurasian Bank Gateway |  
| Database | Supabase / PostgreSQL |  
| NFTs | Metaplex NFT Standard |  

---

## 🧠 AI & Gamification  

EduAgent transforms learning into an interactive experience.  
AI tracks progress, analyzes engagement, and suggests goals while rewarding students with NFTs.  

🏅 **Example Badges:**  
- “STEM Explorer” — for winning a science olympiad  
- “Perfect Attendance” — for consistent participation  
- “Kindness Token” — for helping classmates  
- “AI Mentor Badge” — for completing AI-guided courses  

---

## 🧾 Pilot Integration  

EduAgent simulates the **Intebix × Eurasian Bank pilot** for Digital Tenge payments using Solana Devnet.  
Each transaction is mock-verified and returned with a blockchain hash:  

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "gateway": "intebix-pilot-mock",
  "bank_ref": "EB-PILOT-2025-01",
  "tx_hash": "DEVNET_TX_97260d07d2bcc70342ddca3663eb4fae"
}
View Example Transaction on Solana Explorer

🛣️ Roadmap
Quarter	Milestone
Q4 2025	Pilot launch with KZTE + Intebix (mock integration)
Q1 2026	Real NFT minting on Solana Devnet
Q2 2026	Integration with Solana Pay and school CRMs
Q3 2026	Public rollout across Kazakhstan
2027	Expansion to Central Asia and EduCoin token model

👥 Team
Rakhman Ibragimov — Founder & Developer
Expertise: Solana Devnet, FastAPI, AI gamification, education tech.
Building EduAgent full-time after Cypherpunk Hackathon.

📦 Installation
bash
git clone https://github.com/abc777-pa/eduagent-solana.git
cd eduagent-solana
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn backend.app.main:app --reload --port 8000
Then open the frontend:

bash
python -m http.server 5500
🧩 Environment Setup
Create .env file or copy from .env.example:

ini
Копировать код
RPC_URL=https://api.devnet.solana.com
SECRET_KEY_JSON=[ ... ]
KZTE_MINT=PASTE_MINT_ADDRESS_HERE
SCHOOL_WALLET=PASTE_SCHOOL_PUBKEY_HERE
PORT=8000
🧭 Submission Links
🔗 GitHub: https://github.com/abc777-pa/eduagent-solana

🏁 Colosseum: https://arena.colosseum.org/

💬 Superteam KZ: https://t.me/Superteamkz_cypherpunk

📜 License
MIT License © 2025 Rakhman Ibragimov
Built with ❤️ for Solana Cypherpunk Hackathon 2025

Commit message:

Revise README with English and Russian content
Updated README.md to include English descriptions and features of EduAgent, added extra module details, and provided a local description in Russian.

README.md, after:

# 🧠 EduAgent — AI Assistant for Schools on Solana  

**Pilot Integration:** Intebix × Eurasian Bank | Digital Tenge (KZTE) | NFT Achievements | AI Gamification  

EduAgent connects schools in Kazakhstan to the Digital Tenge (KZTE) pilot via Solana blockchain.  
It automates tuition payments and rewards students with NFT achievement badges powered by AI gamification.  
Built during the **Solana Cypherpunk Hackathon 2025**.  

---

## 🌍 Overview  

EduAgent is a pilot project bridging **Kazakhstan’s educational system** and **Solana blockchain**.  
It enables schools to accept **stablecoin (KZTE / USDC)** payments while gamifying student motivation through **AI-generated NFT badges** for attendance, performance, and engagement.  

Built by: **Rakhman Ibragimov 🇰🇿**  
Location: **Kazakhstan**  
Tracks: Stablecoins / RWAs / Consumer Apps / Infrastructure  

---

## 🎯 Pitch Summary  

EduAgent is an AI-powered assistant for schools in Kazakhstan  
that combines tuition payments and student motivation through on-chain NFT achievements on Solana.  
The project solves real transparency and engagement problems  
as part of the **Digital Tenge pilot with Intebix and Eurasian Bank**.  

---

## 🚀 Features  

- 💰 Tuition payments with **Digital Tenge (KZTE)** and **USDC** via Solana Devnet  
- 🧾 Mock integration with **Intebix × Eurasian Bank** pilot gateway  
- 🎓 NFT achievements using **Metaplex Standard**  
- 🤖 AI gamification powered by **FastAPI + Gemini/OpenAI**  
- 🔒 Secure and auditable transactions on **Solana blockchain**  

---

## 🔗 Solana Integration  

EduAgent uses **Solana Devnet** to tokenize payment confirmations and mint achievement NFTs.  
Each transaction is recorded on-chain through a custom Solana program and verified via the RPC API.  
Without Solana, the system would lose transparency and proof-of-ownership —  
on-chain logic ensures every NFT represents a real verified milestone.  

---

## 💡 Problem & Vision  

Kazakhstan is pioneering one of the world’s first **Digital Tenge pilots**,  
yet most schools still rely on cash payments and manual reporting.  
EduAgent creates a transparent digital ecosystem where  
tuition, performance, and achievements are unified on-chain.  

Our vision:  
**AI-driven education meets transparent blockchain finance.**  

---

## 🧩 Tech Stack  

| Layer | Technology |  
|--------|-------------|  
| Frontend | HTML + JavaScript |  
| Backend | FastAPI (Python) |  
| Blockchain | Solana Web3.js (Devnet) |  
| Payments | Mock Intebix × Eurasian Bank Gateway |  
| Database | Supabase / PostgreSQL |  
| NFTs | Metaplex NFT Standard |  

---

## 🧠 AI & Gamification  

EduAgent transforms learning into an interactive experience.  
AI tracks progress, analyzes engagement, and suggests goals while rewarding students with NFTs.  

🏅 **Example Badges:**  
- “STEM Explorer” — for winning a science olympiad  
- “Perfect Attendance” — for consistent participation  
- “Kindness Token” — for helping classmates  
- “AI Mentor Badge” — for completing AI-guided courses  

---

## 🧾 Pilot Integration  

EduAgent simulates the **Intebix × Eurasian Bank pilot** for Digital Tenge payments using Solana Devnet.  
Each transaction is mock-verified and returned with a blockchain hash:  

```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "gateway": "intebix-pilot-mock",
  "bank_ref": "EB-PILOT-2025-01",
  "tx_hash": "DEVNET_TX_97260d07d2bcc70342ddca3663eb4fae"
}
View Example Transaction on Solana Explorer

🛣️ Roadmap
Quarter	Milestone
Q4 2025	Pilot launch with KZTE + Intebix (mock integration)
Q1 2026	Real NFT minting on Solana Devnet
Q2 2026	Integration with Solana Pay and school CRMs
Q3 2026	Public rollout across Kazakhstan
2027	Expansion to Central Asia and EduCoin token model

👥 Team
Rakhman Ibragimov — Founder & Developer
Expertise: Solana Devnet, FastAPI, AI gamification, education tech.
Building EduAgent full-time after Cypherpunk Hackathon.

🧠 Extra Module: AI Sales Assistant
Located in /tools/asketh_bot.py — a Gemini-powered console bot that simulates human-like sales dialogues for English-learning programs.
This module demonstrates EduAgent’s potential for AI-driven customer interaction and personalized learning recommendations.

🪄 The assistant follows a simple principle:

“Don’t sell air — guide students toward results.”

📦 Installation
bash
git clone https://github.com/abc777-pa/eduagent-solana.git
cd eduagent-solana
pip install -r requirements.txt
uvicorn backend.app.main:app --reload --port 8000
Then open the frontend:

bash
python -m http.server 5500
🧩 Environment Setup
Create .env file or copy from .env.example:

ini
RPC_URL=https://api.devnet.solana.com
SECRET_KEY_JSON=[ ... ]
KZTE_MINT=PASTE_MINT_ADDRESS_HERE
SCHOOL_WALLET=PASTE_SCHOOL_PUBKEY_HERE
PORT=8000
🧭 Submission Links
🔗 GitHub: https://github.com/abc777-pa/eduagent-solana

🏁 Colosseum: https://arena.colosseum.org/

💬 Superteam KZ: https://t.me/Superteamkz_cypherpunk

📜 License
MIT License © 2025 Rakhman Ibragimov
Built with ❤️ for Solana Cypherpunk Hackathon 2025

🇷🇺 Local Description
EduAgent — это AI-ассистент для школ Казахстана, который объединяет оплату обучения и мотивацию через NFT-достижения.
Проект участвует в пилоте Цифрового Тенге (KZTE) совместно с Intebix и Евразийским Банком, используя Solana Devnet для прозрачных платежей и токенизации достижений.
Разработчик: Рахман Ибрагимов (Astana, KZ).
